The final segment is on prescriptions,
and these are two things.
One, they're practical tips, but
they're also kind of logical implications
of everything we've said so far.
They're intended to be ways of helping you
navigate the challenges that we've just
kind of unpacked.
The first is broaden your sample.
And this flows directly our of
the point we were just making
about using multiple signals when tapping
into these new tests in algorithms.
So just as we said with good
performance evaluation, you want to
expand the sources and signals when
you're trying to evaluate your talent.
So additional opinions, additional
performance metrics, additional projects,
and assignments if possible.
The key is that we want them from
the maximally diverse sources.
You want uncorrelated
signals as much as possible.
The most valuable signal that you can
add to the portfolio that you have
is something completely
uncorrelated to everything else.
Another implication,
another type of sample we're talking
is to give people second chances.
And in fact, to give people third chances.
It follows directly from all
the challenges we said above
that it's really hard to
evaluate a person's performance,
whether they have the ability
to do what you want them to do.
Whether they're the right person for
your organization, until you've
seen them in multiple settings.
For example we know that a person's
boss greatly affects their performance.
We also know that in almost all
circumstances a new employee has no
control over who their boss is.
So, how can it be that
we can truly evaluate
a person's ability on a job until we've
seen them work for more than one person?
Or maybe even more than two,
or three people?
We need to see people in different
settings before we can really say
a reliably what it is about
how good a fit they are,
how much talent they actually have for
this particular organization.
So, that suggests second chances,
third chances.
It falls directly from everything
we've been talking about.
A second prescription, and
it's related, is to find and
create what the economist
call exogenous variation.
You gotta find outside influences, you
gotta find outside sources of variation.
So, the only truly valid
way to tease out causation
is to manipulate an employees environment.
If you don't manipulate it,
then you can never know for
sure what actually is driving
the results that you observe.
So, some ideas here are they
require a trade off.
So, we can't sadly, [LAUGH] we can't
just run around running experiments in
organizations to see who's best at
a job or who's truly good at a job.
You still have to run the business.
So, we understand that, but we wanna
push you back a little bit towards your
long term success in organization is gonna
depend on identifying the best people.
And developing people,
identifying strengths, and weaknesses, and
developing their weaknesses.
Those require intentionality
around this kind of variation.
You need to see people in different
situations, in order to know what they're
strong at and you can build on, and what
they're weak at and you need to work on.
You could either put them in
different situations to identify
the best at a particular job.
You can't do that unless you
get this exogenous variation.
So, it requires a little trade off, but
some of that trade off is worthwhile,
you give up a little bit
of operational efficiency
to learn something about your talent.
This search for exogenous variation
is one of the major motivation for
rotational programs.
So in many organizations, especially
when people are first brought on to
an organization, they get sorted
into various environments over say,
their first three months, or six months,
or sometimes two years, three years.
IBM for years,
ran a trading program that was
a leadership development
program that was years long.
They explicitly wanted to put people in a
different context to see how they perform,
and they wanted to commit ahead of time
to doing that, and doing in at set times.
This is exogenous variation,
this is a great example
of kinda taken this experimental
approach to leadership development.
So, [SOUND] this is the gold standard for
sussing out the true ability,
and truth strengths and
weaknesses of your employees is to
commit to that kind of rotation.
However, we know that you can't always
do that, and you can't do that for
all your employees.
And later in life, and later in their
career you can't do it as readily.
So, you need to look for
lesser variations.
Look, this is a rationale for changing
teams, pushing people around to different
teams, changing direct reports,
changing projects, changing offices.
Any source of variation changes
up the environment, and
gives you a better lens into the true
underlying ability of the employee.
A third prescription, and
this is a very general prescription,
and that is to reward in
proportion to the signal.
The idea here is that you
should match the duration and
complexity of rewards to the duration and
complexity of the past accomplishments.
So, We've talked a lot about how its
tough to get these strong signals.
The challenges of pulling from the data
true inference, so if you're stuck
with only weak signals you need to only
base weak rewards on those signals.
Conversely if you're able to do some
of these more sophisticated things
running experiments Pushing people
around into different environments,
working with someone for
years in lots of different situations.
Once you have that kind of signal,
substantial,
clear signal, then you can offer
substantial rewards in proportion.
So for short noisy signals, better to
give things, like bonuses than raises.
Better to give praise than promotions
because they're based on relatively flimsy
information.
So, couple notes here.
One, most signals are noisy, and
importantly we're prone to
underestimate that noise.
So, we talked a lot about this in
the performance evaluation module.
Individuals underestimate
the role of chance,
we underestimate the noise
in these signals.
Therefore, we're inclined to think we
understand which employees are best, and
which are worse more than we actually can.
We're over confident in our ability
to identify one from the other,
so what's the implication?
We probably over-reward, we put too
much in response to these signals.
We need to learn to dampen that.
You gotta recognize when
you've got weak signals, and
you need to match in proportion
the rewards, the longevity of what
you're giving employees in proportion
to what signal it's based on.
Second note is that, well, on the other
hand you have to retain people.
So, one of the reasons you
give people promotions,
one of the reasons you give people bonuses
is to keep them from leaving the firm.
You've gotta compete in
this external labor market.
Fine, good, but there's a premium on,
there's competitive advantage in being
an accurate evaluator of talent.
And if someone else wants to come in and
overreact to a signal that you happen
to know is noisy, a single that's not
based on some of these deeper principles
that we've been talking about.
Then maybe it's okay to
let them be hired away.
You wanna be the act to judge, you wanna
have a compare to advantage in evaluating
people better, and if others wanna prior
to these mistakes, you should let them.
It's only gonna make
your company stronger.
In general, draw a major distinctions, and
grant major rewards only when
following major signals.
This is the principle behind partnership,
and consulting in law firms.
It's also the principle behind
the academic tenure, so
academic tenure is almost irrevocable.
So, you wanna be very
careful about granting that.
Who do they grant it to?
They grant it to relatively few,
and they granted only after 5 or
10 years worth of essentially probation.
Junior faculty are essentially on
probation, and it's a year's long,
[LAUGH] no guaranteed I'd track,
but that's what it takes.
That's why the organizations do that,
hundreds of years
tradition has built it that way because
the reward on the other side is so heavy.
You don't wanna give that strong a reward,
you don't wanna give such a long
lasting reward,
unless it's based on a very strong signal.
An example of this done well was
the succession of Jack Welch as CEO at GE.
So, Jack Welch is probably the most
celebrated CEO in the history of the US.
He was CEO of GE for 20 years, and
led that organization to the very
top of the multinational world.
And in about 2000, 2001,
he was going to retire, and
he had to decide who was
going to succeed him.
And now, they'd done planning,
of course, for years, but
in the end, it came down to three people.
And they had to somehow assess,
which of these three should take over for
the great Jack Welch.
So, what do they do?
They ended up running what
is considered a tournament.
So, this notion tournament, of course,
many people know it from sports.
But actually Eddie Lazear and
Sherwin Rosen, economists,
came up with this notion as personnel
evaluation that in some situations,
the best way to evaluate personnel
is to put them in a tournament.
And that's essentially what
Welch did with these three.
So, he had Jeff Immelt, Jim McNerney, and
Bob Nardelli all as viable contenders, but
he's got all the challenges
we've been talking about,
everything we've been talking about
holds here, so what does he do?
He basically announced to them and
to the world that this were the three
finalist, and he's gonna observe
their performance over the next period
of time to see who should be the CEO.
This is obviously a big reward, right?
This is a big long standing reward, so
it needs to be based on big clear signals,
how does he do that?
He made each one,
the head of large divisions within GE.
And he made the game clear, and
then he followed their performances for
not a short period of time,
but for a year.
Of course he had a career of
watching them to that point, but
the tournament lasted a year, and
it was a way to get a very substantial
signal in separating these guys.
They were all working the same economy,
of course,
it's not perfectly apples to apples,
he still had to do whatever he could
to make sure that playing to this level to
contextualize each of their performance.
But within the he'd faced,
this was a fantastic way to get
that comparison apples to apples.
So, McNerney joked at the end of this,
Welch reports this in one of his books,
McNerney joked, McNerney didn't get it,
Jeff got it and he still the CEO of CEO.
McNerney said, he wanted recap, it's
the first thing he said, but he added,
I want you to know I wanted the job, but
I also want to tell you I
think the process was fair.
So, this was the biggest competition for
CEO in US history, one of the losers
here reported that not only
during the outside thing that the process
was an effective way to identify the best.
McNerney, as one of the people
participating in it thought it was
a fair way.
So, prescription number 4,
is to emphasize development.
Most of this module we've been talking
about assessment, but talent analytics is
at least as much about development,
as it is about assessment and selection.
So, we wanna emphasize that it's not
just finding the next Jeff Immelt.
It's also about, all your employees
identifying strengths and weaknesses,
building on the strengths, and
shoring up the weaknesses.
So, you can see this within an industry
that is famous for selecting, and
making bets, venture capital.
Often people think of them
as just standing back,
and assessing which firm to bet on,
which entrepreneurs to bet on.
But they spend considerable time, actually
investing in developing those managers,
investing in developing the entrepreneurs
is not just about selection.
Even in that world, even such
a selection-dominant world as venture
capital, is significantly
oriented towards development.
Another example comes from sports.
Anthony Davis is one of the best
young basketball players in the NBA.
Most recognized as the best, and he plays
for the organization New Orleans Hornets.
And his development even though he
was very highly regarded coming out,
there are many players who are highly
regarded that don't develop.
It was commented here recently by a noted
basketball analyst Kurt Kingsbury
that part of his success has been not
just because he is intrinsically good.
But because the New Orleans Hornets
are well-known for establishing, for
developing players, so Goldsberry says,
player development is one of the least
understood elements of NBA success.
Everybody knows it's important, and
everyone knows which
organizations excel at it.
Some organizations routinely transform
draft picks into good players,
while perpetual lottery teams,
these are bad teams, commonly sit and
watch them fail to pan out.
So, even in an environment
as closely watched, and
with as much at stake as NBA teams,
there's great variation in firms that
understand and
value the importance of development.
It's not just about assessment,
it's not just about selection,
it's also about development.
There are many more good tools now,
some firms are just using those tools for
selection, they're missing an opportunity.
You can use those good tools for
development as well.
The fifth and final prescription
is to ask the critical question.
So, I wanna end this module in the same
way that we ended the performance
evaluation module, which is to
give you a battery of questions.
Which should be useful across
a wide range of situations.
Sometimes you're gonna be the analyst,
sometimes you're gonna be the one
consuming somebody else's analytics,
sometimes you're just gonna be
the person kibitzing on the side.
These questions should help you
do any of those jobs better, and
it also provides a way for
us to summarize what we've been talking
about over the course of this module.
The first question is,
are we comparing apples to apples?
Always bring this question to the table.
Have we sufficiently adjusted for context?
Right along with this, know that we
tend to not adjust enough for context.
That's why the question is so valuable.
We're prone to not adjust for context,
we need to always push back and
ask, are we comparing apples to apples?
Second, what impact have other
people had on this person's work?
How interdependent are these measures?
Again, we tend to attribute
performance to individuals, and
we need to always push and ask,
what was the context for this?
And in particular,
a special important context is
the team that they're involved in.
And the team might not be the formal team,
it might just be the informal
team that influenced the work.
Third question, how have expectations
colored our evaluations?
To what extent have successes and
failures been influenced
by the way we've treated people,
the situations we've put them in?
This isn't meant to rob people of
accountability and responsibility for
their actions, but it is meant for
underscore the influences individuals and
organizations have on
employee performance.
And again,
we underestimate the impact we have,
many of us miss this altogether,
and so this is a check and
a push to evaluate what impact your
expectations are having on your employees.
Finally, are the factors we believe
lead to success and failure,
are they truly causal?
We tell stories, we're prone to tell
stories, we see correlations and
believe that there are causal stories,
do we know that?
Again, a check.
We should know we're prone to go that way.
We need to push back and
ask, is this truly causal?
Is there evidence to that,
is there evidence to the contrary?
So, that's about your questions for you.
It should help as a way of remembering
what we've talked through, but
also as a set of tools you can bring to
any conversation about talent analytics.
And especially to the interpretation of
data that comes out of talent analytics.
We wish you the best with your work.